[charts] Add Heatmap (#13209)
mui/mui-x: docs/data/charts/heatmap/heatmap.md

---
title: React Heatmap chart
productId: x-charts
---

# Charts - Heatmap [<span class="plan-pro"></span>](/x/introduction/licensing/#pro-plan 'Pro plan')🚧

> <p class="description">Heatmap charts allow to highlight correlation between categories.</p>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<p class="description">Heatmap charts visually represents data with color variations to highlight patterns and trends across two dimensions.</p>
```

We can make the text a bit richer, what do you think?

:::warning
The Heatmap Chart component isn't stable. Don't hesitate to open issues to give feedback.
:::

## Basics

The Heatmap requires two axes with `data` properties.
Those data defined the x and y categories.

The series `data` is an array of 3-tuples.
The 2 first numbers are respectively the x and y indexes of the cell.
And the third is its value.

{{"demo": "BasicHeatmap.js"}}

## Customization

### Color mapping

To customize the color mapping, use the `zAxis` configuration.
You can either use the piecewise or continuous [color mapping](https://mui.com/x/react-charts/styling/#values-color).

{{"demo": "ColorConfig.js"}}

### Highlight 🚧

> Is this a disco dancefloor? 🕺🪩

Reviewer: 🤣

Planned work:

> - Add a way to override the styling. I woudl be in favor of adding a CSS classes instead of using styled component with ownerState, to let user apply filters on top of the current color, but they could not do crazy thing like complete color modification. They would need to use slots for that

Reviewer: Why not both? (ownerState/css)

Reviewer: Also, probably better to write this more on the third person if we want to keep it in? Otherwise I would just make it a generic statement like `Allow overriding styles`

---
title: React Heatmap chart
productId: x-charts
---

# Charts - Heatmap [<span class="plan-pro"></span>](/x/introduction/licensing/#pro-plan 'Pro plan')🚧

<p class="description">Heatmap charts allow to highlight correlation between categories.</p>

:::warning
The Heatmap Chart component isn't stable. Don't hesitate to open issues to give feedback.
:::

## Basics

The Heatmap requires two axes with `data` properties.
Those data defined the x and y categories.

The series `data` is an array of 3-tuples.
The 2 first numbers are respectively the x and y indexes of the cell.
And the third is its value.

{{"demo": "BasicHeatmap.js"}}

## Customization

### Color mapping

To customize the color mapping, use the `zAxis` configuration.
You can either use the piecewise or continuous [color mapping](https://mui.com/x/react-charts/styling/#values-color).

{{"demo": "ColorConfig.js"}}

### Highlight

You can chose to highlight the hovered element by setting `highlightScope.highlight` to `'item'`.
To fade the other item, set `highlightScope.fade` to `'global'`.

{{"demo": "HighlightHeatmap.js"}}

> By default highlighted/faded effect is obtained by applying the CSS property `fliter: saturate(...)` to cells.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default highlighted/faded effect is obtained by applying the CSS property `filter: saturate(...)` to cells.
```
